One feels like buying HDFCO Optimum Secure
plan.  The company is fantastic.   The
track record is good.  A little
extra money is being spent but at least there will be
peace of mind.  There will be no tension about anything.
But the other part of my mind says
that who knows whether I will have to make any claim in the coming years
or not.
Paying so much extra money to a company without any reason is also not a profitable deal.  If
such questions keep coming to your mind again and again
regarding the comparison of HDFC Ago Optimus Secure and other plans, then today's
video is going to give you complete clarity.
I will start with the USP of HDFC Ago
and then learn about the
rest of the pros and cons of this plan.
Along with this, we will discuss which add-ons
are worth taking in this plan or for which add-ons the
company is charging a lot of money.
Then we will discuss how is the claims performance of
HDFC Ergo Health Insurance between 2022 to 25
?  How many
claims have they settled or
what will be the average number of complaints?  And
finally the subsection will be pricing.
In pricing, through a sample family size,
we will understand
how much money you will
pay for HDFC Ergo Optima Secure plan, not today but in the next six years
and if we compare this amount
with other three-four popular plans, then
what difference will come out so that you
can know exactly how much
extra premium you will pay to
get this brand or quality services.
So without any delay let's quickly start this video.
Firstly, this plan claims that
after 2 years of continuous renewal, your
coverage will increase four times to 4x.  If the
base cover of your policy is ₹1 lakh, then eventually it will become
₹40 lakh, i.e. four times the sum insured,
in 2 years.
We will also know and check how much truth is there in this claim.
But first let us understand
what are the four strong USPs of Optima Secure Plan?
What are the features that make this plan
so special?  The first benefit
is secure benefit.  It says that
your coverage will be doubled from day one.  You
can claim ₹20 lakh for a ₹1 lakh policy from day one.  Now this
is such an important benefit that the plan has been
named Optima Secure.  So this is
secure benefit.  The second special feature
is Plus Benefit.  This is their cumulative
bonus.  Your sum insured will increase by 100%
after 2 years.  That means you will get 50%
cumulative bonus on every renewal
for the next two years irrespective of claim, that is,
whether you have made any claim
in the past policy or not, if you have a policy of ₹1 lakh, then on the
first renewal it will become ₹15 lakh
and on the next renewal
it will become ₹20 lakh because you get 100%
plus benefit.  The third USP
comes friends, the restore benefit.  Whatever
amount is used from your Basic Sum Insured,
partially or completely, the same
amount will be restored again. Once in
a policy period, if the policy is of ₹1 lakh and
you take a claim of ₹1 lakh, then
that ₹1 lakh will be restored again. Once
in a policy year for the next claim, you
can claim the entire ₹1 lakh within it.   The
fourth benefit is Protect
Benefit, which means coverage of non-medical items,
which are consumable items like
masks, gloves, nebulizer kit,
you get coverage of 68 such non-medical items.
Zero deduction and non-medical
expenses, is this true?  This is
not completely true.  You will get coverage for only 68 non-medical
items in this plan.  The
remaining three lists of non-medical
items are not covered under this.  Now
let us know how this four times coverage will happen within 2 years
or whether it will happen or not.
Mr. Sharma, who is 35 years old,
has an Optima Secure
policy of ₹1 lakh which is his base coverage
for his family.  Secure benefit
of ₹1 lakh is available.  The total coverage is
₹20 lakh.  This has been there since day one.  There
is no doubt in this.  After that, plus
benefit is available for the next two years.
That is, 50% in the first year and 50% on the next renewal.
So in this way ₹1 lakh basic sum
insured.  ₹1 Lakh Plus Benefit and ₹1 Lakh
Secure Benefit.  The total amount
for Sharma ji becomes ₹ lakh.  The next benefit the
company says is the Restore Benefit.
That means, whenever Mr. Sharma uses any money from this ₹30 lakh,
from where will it be deducted first?  From Basic Sum Insured.
So it will be restored again up to ₹1
lakh.  So the company says that here
you get a restoration benefit of ₹1 lakh.  The total
coverage is ₹40 lakh.  But you
can make a single claim only up to ₹30 lakh.
Because the ₹1 lakh restoration benefit will be
available to you only if
some of this ₹1 lakh is used.   If
some amount is used from your basic sum insured,
then you will be able to use this ₹1 lakh
for subsequent claims.  So,
if you count the ₹1 lakh restoration benefit here as four times coverage, then
I don't think this is the right
way.  Because many plans have
unlimited restoration.  This
plan also has Edge as an add-on.  So if
you count each restoration as additional sum
assured, it will
stretch to unlimited.  Because there
is unlimited restoration.  So, you can say that
you can take up to three times your single claim coverage.  Yes, whenever
your amount falls short, the restoration
benefit up to the basic sum insured will keep
coming back to you.  Now let's talk about some
standard coverage and benefits.  So, the
basic sum assured you can get under Optima Secure plan is minimum ₹5 lakh to
₹2 crore.  There is
no limit on room rent.  You can use any category of
room during your treatment.
Apart from this, there are hospitalization
expenses in which ICU expenses
are also covered.  That too will be covered up to the sum insured.
Alternative treatments like AYUSH
, Ayurveda, Yoga,
Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, Homeopathy will
also be covered up to the sum insured.
However, some terms and conditions may
apply to this.  So you must
read them.  Home health care means
you want to get treatment for any disease at home.  That is
also covered up to some insured.  Organ
donor expenses are also covered up to the sum
insured.  Pre and Post Hospitalization
Expenses, Pre Hospitalization means
your claim for the treatment for which you were admitted has been approved.
You can claim the same from the company by filing a reimbursement claim for the expenses related to doctor's consultation 60 days prior, cost of medicines and diagnostic tests and such expenses for 180 days after discharge from the hospital.
Apart from this, I have already explained to you the four USPs.
If we talk about emergency ambulance road ambulance,
it is covered up to the sum insured.  You will get the
cost of air ambulance up to only ₹5 lakh.
Daily Cash for Choosing Shared
Accommodation.  That means during treatment you say that
I do not want a single room.  I would even
stay in twin sharing or general board during treatment.  So
you can claim ₹800 per day.  Maximum up
to ₹4800 in a policy year.  E-Opinion for
Critical Illness: If
you want to get a second opinion on a serious illness through email, then
once insured for 51
defined major illnesses, which are 51 defined listed
serious illnesses, you can
get a second medical opinion from a panel of doctors.  There are
no specific age conditions for purchasing the plan.  There is no limit on the number of adult
members above 18 years of age and no maximum
entry age limit for this plan.
If we talk about dependent children,
then dependent children between 91 days to 25 years
who are unmarried
and non-earning can
live with their parents under the Optima Secure plan.
Let us now understand
some of the add-on covers of this plan which are optional covers that you
can avail under this plan.  The first one is
Health Critical Illness, under which
you will get coverage for 51 listed critical diseases.
Now, the
treatment of these serious diseases is covered in your plan,
but if you take this add-on, you will get lump sum
benefit, the coverage of which you can avail from
₹1 lakh to ₹crore.  Suppose you have taken
this add-on for critical illness
with a sum insured of ₹1 lakh and if
any of the 51 listed critical illnesses is
diagnosed, then a
lump sum benefit of ₹1 lakh is
given to the policy holder.  You will get this benefit
by taking Health Critical Illness Add On.
Apart from this, you can also avail hospital cash benefit.  For
the number of days the policy holder
remains admitted.  So apart from the treatment expenses,
you can also claim per day expenses.  There
are many options for number of days and amount that you can choose from here.
And the more the number of days and
amount, the more premium the
company will charge you.  The next add-on is
Unlimited Restore.  The Standard plan offers
single-time restoration throughout the year.
If you
want to take unlimited restoration, because today
you will get unlimited restoration in every plan.
So
you can take the add on of unlimited restoration.  Apart from this,
you can take Individual Personal Accidental Rider.
After taking this rider, if an adult
policy holder dies accidentally
or suffers permanent total disability, i.e., becomes
completely disabled
or becomes permanently partially disabled, then the
stated sum insured will be
given to him as a lump sum.  And
finally comes the add-on Optima Well Being
through which you can also cover some OPD expenses.
Now these are the add-ons which
you will get as standard in this Optima Secure plan.  But the
company has later launched three new add-ons which
include Parenthood Limitless and ABCD
Chronic Care Rider.  Let us also
understand what is their use and
how much money the company charges you for them
so that we can decide whether these new
riders are worth choosing or not.  The first one
is our new rider ABCD Chronic Care
Rider.  Now what does this ABCD mean?
See, there are four such conditions in it -
asthma, blood pressure, cholesterol and
diabetes.  These A B C D denote these.
So you
can get their coverage before the standard waiting period.  Suppose
you have any of these pre-existing conditions and you want to get coverage for them from the 31st day,
then you will have to take these riders - A
B C D Chronic Care Rider.  Otherwise,
you will get coverage for these conditions
after 3 years of purchasing the policy.  When you
buy and declare the policy,
you will get coverage after 36 months and if you
want to pre-pay it, you will get coverage from 31 days.
This rider can be
very beneficial for policyholders who
need early coverage related to these four conditions.
Now the next question is
how much money will the company charge for this rider?  So to
know this we have to see its rate
chart.  Where the loading percentage is written.
Loading is basically the opposite of discount.
In discount, your premium
reduces percentage wise.  But
your premium will increase according to the percentage mentioned in the loading.  If you have a pre-
existing disease, the waiting period is 3 years.
Meaning if you have just purchased a fresh policy
then the loading amount is 25%.  There will be
25% loading on the base premium of your policy.
If the premium is ₹10,000
then ₹2500 extra will have to be paid.  If
you have purchased the policy, one year has passed
and now you take this rider, that is, there is a
PED waiting period of 2 years, then there is a loading of 15%
and if your PED
waiting period is one year left, then a loading of 7.5% will be
levied on your base premium.  So now
you can compare the coverage and price and
decide whether you should take the ABCD
Chronic Care Rider in Optima Secure plan
or not.  The second rider which was
launched later friends is
Limitless.  Limitless rider states that
you will get a limitless number of claims based on your sum insured.
If your sum
insured is ₹10 lakh or more but
less than ₹50 lakh,
you can stretch one claim during the entire policy life to infinite sum
insured.  That means
no sum insured limit will be applicable on it.
And if your sum insured is ₹50 lakh or
more, then
you can file two such claims in your entire lifetime, on which the
sum insured limit will be removed.  That means
this money will not be less for that treatment under this policy.
So here the premium will be
decided according to your sum insured
and here domestic plans are
written, Optima Secure Plan
gives you domestic coverage.  So this loading
percentage, this first table will work here.
If your sum insured is ₹1 lakh
and you want to take limitless rider, then a
loading of ₹12.5% ​​will be applicable.  If the premium is ₹10,000
then ₹12.50 extra will have to be paid.  If the
sum insured is ₹15 lakh, then 10% loading will be levied; if the
sum insured is ₹20 lakh, then 5% loading will be levied; if the sum insured is ₹25 lakh, then
4% loading will be levied; and similarly, if you take sum insured of ₹1 crore, then
only 1.5% loading will be levied.
Now why is it that if the sum insured
is less then the loading amount is more.
Because the Limitless Rider has
more chances of being activated in the case of low sum
insured.  Because if your sum
insured is sufficient to the basic sum insured,
then the chances of using the limitless rider are
greatly reduced and due to this
your loading percentage reduces
and you get this rider at a cheaper rate.   The
third rider is that of paternity,
under which maternity expenses will be covered.  A
total of two
deliveries will be covered under this in a lifetime and the
waiting period will be 24 months.
You cannot claim maternity for 2 years after purchasing the policy.  And
apart from maternity, you can cover prenatal
medical expenses i.e. the listed expenses of pregnancy before delivery.
And you will be able to cover these expenses even after postnatal delivery.
Apart from this, IVF coverage will also be available.
What are the coverage options?  You can claim expenses up to the limit of ₹00, ₹1
lakh, ₹5 lakh and ₹2 lakh, whatever sum insured
maternity you choose.
This
is indemnity based coverage.  That means, whatever the hospital
bill is, the coverage will be available up to this limit.
Now how much money is the company charging for this
?  For ₹5,000 coverage, you will have to pay
₹14,000 per year.  That means,
if the waiting period is 2 years, then within 2 years
you will pay ₹28,000 for coverage of ₹50,000 and approximately ₹53,000 for coverage of ₹1 lakh.
But here is the twist in the story.
Because you will be able to get maternity coverage only after paying premium for 3 years and not just 2 years.
Because in the first year when you
buy the policy, you pay ₹14,000 at
that time.  The first renewal will come
at the end of the first year, so you will pay ₹14,000 at that
time.
Your waiting period will be over only when the renewal for the second year comes.
You will give ₹14,000 at that time.  That means
you will pay this premium three times for maternity coverage.
You will get coverage of ₹00
by paying ₹42,000.
Similarly, you will get coverage of ₹1 lakh by
paying approximately ₹780,000 and after that the entire
claim process, approval and documentation,
all these things remain separate.  So if
you feel it is worth taking this maternity coverage
then you can take it.  But
personally, I found it very expensive.  When the
company has already taken 75% of the total coverage premium from you,
I do
not see this as a favourable risk to reward ratio.   The
rest is up to you, you can take it if you want.
But even better maternity plans are
available in the market.  So you
can try them too.  Now
friends, before we talk about the pricing of HDFCO
and its comparison.  Let us first know
how is the claims performance of HDFC Ago.  So for this I am going to
show you a total of four metrics and I am going to
show you the data from 2022 to 2025 to show
how the company has performed.  How many
claims have been settled, how much money has been given
and how many complaints have been received.
We will also discuss solvency margin.  So
our first metric is the claim
settlement ratio.  That means, out of 100 claims
filed by the policy holders,
how many claims is the company settling?
In 2022-23, the day percentage was 97.45,
in 2023-24 it decreased slightly to 94.42
but in 2024-25 it was consistent again
with 97.47%
and the three-year average comes out to be
96.45.  If you compare it with the industry average,
it is one of the best
claim settlement ratios in the industry.
So here you will get
to see a satisfactory performance.  The second metric comes
claim speed ratio.  That is, when policy
holders filed a claim of ₹100,
how much money has the company given in return in the
past three years from 2022 to 2025.  So this
ratio is also quite consistent.
In 2022-23, it was 80.44% i.e. claims worth ₹100 were
sought.  Out of that, ₹80 was given by the company.
In 2023 it was around 84% and in 2024
and 25 it was again 80.53 and on average
it was around ₹82 that was paid
out of every ₹100 claimed by policy
holders.  So how is this amount?
This is better than many companies, more than that.
But there are some companies whose
ratios are quite wrong.  Especially in the public
sector companies, government companies,
especially in the public sector companies,
this is a little less than that.  But this 19%
deduction that you are seeing includes the
amount deducted
from every claim and
also includes rejected claims.  So this
claims paid ratio of 82% is also
satisfactory.  If you compare it with the
other peers of the industry.  If we
compare it with other companies, this still is
quite good.  Third comes the incurred claims
ratio.  The incurred claims ratio is the
amount of money the company collected
from the policyholders each year and the amount of claims paid in return.
That is, if ₹100 is for premium, in
return the company gave claims worth ₹87 in 2022-23.
It is considered to be a good percentage.  If the age is above
65 and up to 7580 then
it is good for both the policy holder and the company.  If it
goes above 80-85 then it is
not good for the company.  But it
is still good for policy holders.
Directly speaking, if we talk about the impact,
if it goes below 65 then it becomes
more beneficial for the company and policy
holders should look at it with a little doubt.
So 87% is 85% and 87% is the average of
86.58.  So this is
very good for the policy holders.  Next is
solvency margin.  That means
they should always have one and a half times the amount of sum insured distributed in their policy contracts.  So the
solvency margin is 1.9 times.   If we
take the average of the last three years, it may be
a little better but
it will not make any significant difference directly to the policy holders.
Because this will
not affect the policy coverage.  As long as
it is above benchmark, there is
no need to worry about solvency margin.  And the
most important metric for policy holders
is complaints per 10,000
claims, that is, for every 10,000 claims filed,
how many complaints were filed?
In 2022-23, there were only 10 complaints
against 10,000 claims.  There were seven complaints in 2023-24
but this figure is
slightly higher in 2024-25.  You can consider this as awareness
or the efficiency of the company has reduced.
This can also happen.  The total
average of 3 years comes out.  There are approximately 11 complaints for
every 10,000 claims.
If we take the industry average, then the number of companies is around 22 to 25.
So this is almost half of that.
But there are companies with even fewer complaints.
But if we talk about HDFC Ago, the
complaints number is also satisfactory.   There is
no need to be afraid or panic about this.
This number is quite positive for the holders.
Now friends, let's talk about the
pricing of HDFCO Optima Secure plan and
not just the pricing of this plan, I will
compare it with four other popular plans
and not for one year but for the next six years.
So the
standard family size I have taken for this comparison is two
adults and one child.  The age of adults is
31 years and 29 years and the age of the child is
five years.  His address is Delhi and the sum
insured is ₹1 lakh.  If this
family buys HDFC Optima Secure Plan,
this will be their age in 2026.   The
total premium they will have to pay is Rs 24,605.
I have taken this premium from Policy Ba's
website because I had to compare the premiums of other companies also.
So that was
the easiest option.  The only add-
on included in this is the Unlimited Restoration
Benefit.  After that the annual premium
comes out to be ₹24.65.
You know that HDF Share Optima Secure
Plan does not have age banded premium.
Your premium will increase every year.  So it
increases a little bit every year.  In 2027, this
family will have to pay Rs 24966
and accordingly, we have collected data till 2031.
Husband's age is 36
years.  The wife is now 34 years old and the
son is 10 years old and now they have to pay
₹26,349.   There
is blank age wise revision inside this premium.  No inflation revision
is included in this.  If any
premium increases due to inflation, then that is excluded.
I want to show you
how much difference it is going to have from other plans even age wise.  The
second plan that I have chosen is
Neema Up Reshore 3.0, which is the latest
plan and its premium in the first year till 2026 will be Rs
19,934 and since it is an
age banded premium, it will directly
increase at the age of 36, so its premium will be Rs
20,133, which means in the years in between,
it will be the same premium of Rs 19,934.  So
we have mentioned these two premiums here.  The
third plan is Care Supreme.  It
is a very popular plan.  Here the
premium for the next 5 years from 2026 will be Rs 17,920 and
when the age band changes, this premium will become
Rs 433.   The
third plan I have taken is Aitya Birla
Activ 1 Max.  Its premium is going to be
around ₹16,500 in 2026 and when the
age band changes in 2031, the premium will become ₹
20,255.
And the fifth and last plan I have taken is
ICIC LBRD Elevate Plan.
This has the cheapest premium among these plans.  Will be
available for around ₹15,000 in 2026.  And in 2031, the
same plan will be available for ₹17,973.  And let me
tell you again that
inflation revision is not included in these plans.
That is individual because it can be
individual review of every company.
We can never predict how many claims a company receives, when and by how much they increase the premium for which plan.  Now
I will show you how much the premium percentage increases year on year.
We purchased the policy in 2026.  The
price of HDF shares increases in 2027.  Approximately
1-1.5% and every year it has increased by approximately 1.5%.
If we talk about the age factor, then
within the age of our sample family size, there is an average revision of 1.5% in
HDFC Optima Secure Plan.  There
is also very minimal revision within the Neer Resur 3.0 Elite plan.  When the age band
changes in 2031, there is still an estimated revision of 1%.
Otherwise, premium is its bean.   The
premium under the Care Supreme plan will remain the same for 5 years.  The edge is bended.  Then the
premium will increase by ₹2500 and that amounts to
14% of its base premium.
This amount will
increase by 14% from its first year premium.  There will be a revision of 22% within Aditya Birla AI One.
When this agent changes.
Will increase by ₹3712.  And there is a revision of 15% within the Elevate plan.  The
premium will increase by approximately ₹2400
when the age band of this family changes.
So in this table I want to show you
how much
extra money you pay percentage wise.  Which plan can
we clearly see here?
If you look at this chart, you will
notice that HDFC Ergo Optima
Secure is already more expensive than the other plans right from the beginning.
If you look at Neva, the
ratio above is 3.0 and the rest of the plans have
first premiums ranging from ₹16 to ₹2000. The
first premium of Optima Secure plan is
₹42,500.  So this gap in
pricing is already high
and the biggest reason for this could be the secure
benefit because
you get sum insured equal to the sum insured.  Its premium
is also added to it.  After that,
HDFC Optima Secure keeps increasing a little every year.
Because other plans have age
banded premiums.  And finally, when their age-
banded premium is revised,
you will still see a significant difference
in the premiums of other plans as compared to Optima Secure.
Now guys, I am finally going to show you
how much money this family has paid in total in these six years and
try to understand percentage wise and amount
wise how much Optima Secure has cost this family in the
long term.  So,
for Optima Secure plan, this family has
paid approximately ₹152000
₹153000 in six years. If they had NVO above ratio
and 3.0 plan, they would have paid ₹119000 ₹1200. If they had
taken K Supam plan, they would have had to pay ₹10000. If they had taken
Aditya Birla Activ Max plan,
they would have had to pay ₹12 ₹13000. And if they had chosen
ICIC LBD Elevate plan,
they would have had to pay ₹9596000.  How much extra money was
spent?  If you skip the Elite plan and
take the Optima Secure plan, you will get ₹33,000 more.  If you
take Optima Secure plan instead of Kar Supreme plan, then it will cost Rs 4243,000
more.  If you take Optima Secure plan instead of Active On Max, you will get
around ₹000 more
and if you take Optima Secure plan instead of Elevate plan, you will get ₹
56-57,000 more
within 6 years.  You can also see the percentages.  There
is a difference in premium ranging from 20 to 40%.  Let me tell you that these
premiums do
not include any inflation money or add-on money in six years.
Only ₹200 at Optima Secure.  Only the
Optima Secure plan has an add-on of ₹1200 for
unlimited restoration benefit.
Now through this comparison I do
not want to tell you at all that you should
take the cheapest plan.  I
want to give you a clear picture that you
now have a choice whether you want to save this ₹400
or you
want to go with the excellent claim performance.  Because I want to make it
clear
how much extra money you are paying for the good service of the brand.  This is
my only purpose of making this video, making this review video.
Because whenever we buy anything,
we must calculate its worth that
how much extra amount will I have to pay in return for this good brand and good company that I am choosing.
And
only after finding this difference will you be
able to take an informed decision whether you have taken the right decision
or the wrong one.  Because maybe there is
not much risk to my health.
I should not make any claim in the next 10 years.
So it would not make sense to give more weightage to a good brand for claim service
as I can save a lot of money by replacing it.
And if I feel that
any claim may come in the near future
or if it ever comes then I should get good service
and the company should be very good.  It should be a
good brand and in
return I will have to pay so much money only then you will be
able to take a good and calculated decision.
And one thing I always say in my videos is
that no company or plan
exists in this country and over the world
that guarantees your claim.  No matter
how much money you pay as premium,
your awareness about the policy, its
coverage and how to handle the situation if something goes wrong is still important.  It's
very important to be about that.  Because only then will it be possible for
you to ask the right question to the company as to
why this claim has been rejected?
Why is money deducted from this policy?  Why shouldn't I get this claim
?  Because you know
what is covered under the policy and what are
your rights.  I hope this
review video has given you enough clarity
about HDFC Air Optima Secure plan.  If you have any other questions,
you can ask me in the comment section.
I will be very happy to answer it.   If you
liked the information,
you can like the video to show your love and support
and if you want to get similar practical,
unbiased and data based videos
in the future, then definitely subscribe to the channel.
I am Harvinder Singh, I will meet you
in the next video.  Till then take care,
stay fit and stay healthy.  Jai Hind.